---
title: SIGCSE Viability Report
date: 2010-09-22
---

**SIGCSE Viability Report - by Barbara Boucher Owens**\
This news item is taken from the [June 2010 SIGCSE
Bulletin](http://portal.acm.org/toc.cfm?id=1816261&coll=portal&dl=ACM&type=issue&idx=J688&part=newsletter&WantType=Newsletters&title=ACM%20SIGCSE%20Bulletin&CFID=104639932&CFTOKEN=17124540).

SIGCSE recently underwent its Viability Review, an exercise that each
ACM Special Interest Group must go through every four years. The SIG
Chair presents a status report at the ACMSIG Governing Board meeting.
Cutting to the chase -- SIGCSE is viable for the next four years!

The downturn in the economy did affect SIGCSE, but listening to the
reports of other SIGs and reflecting on all that SIGCSE does, we are a
very healthy SIG and we have much to be proud of.

FINANCES: SIGCSE has a \$470,000 fund balance that is comfortably better
than the minimum required by ACM. However, it was down almost \$50,000
from the year before.

Some of the specific reasons for our shortfall were due to quirks in
accounting, a one-time cost for moving to the new high quality ACM
magazine, Inroads, and increasing expense of volunteer travel.

MEMBER BENEFITS: Our 2600 members receive the quarterly ACM magazine
Inroads, the quarterly newsletter, and proceedings of our three
conference on CD. SIGCSE members are eligible to apply for small
research grants in learning and teaching. And our able volunteers
oversee our very active member listservs.

GOALS: SIGCSE's mission is to provide a "forum for educators to discuss
issues related to the development, implementation, and/or evaluation of
computing programs, curricula, and courses, as well as syllabi,
laboratories, and other elements of teaching and pedagogy.\"

SIGCSE continues to be perceived as the premier organization for
computing education. It serves post-secondary Computer Science teaching
and education research faculty with many activities focused in making
CS1 and CS2 effective. It also serves pre-college faculty through our
relationship with the CSTA and with other post-secondary teaching
faculty in related computing disciplines.

SIGCSE is active in extending the reach and influence of Computing
Education. SIGCSE leadership serves on various ACM Education committees.
SIGCSE collaborates with CSTA on an NSF grant. And SIGCSE has a growing
international presence through its ITiCSE conference and ICER workshop.
SIGCSE also has in cooperation status for numerous conferences,
including the CCSC conferences, Koli Calling, and AAAI.

SIGCSE continues to be a major player in the NSF funded Computing
Education Summit. SIGCSE conferences include a Broadening Participation
in Computing thread, with the goal to increase interest in computing.
Some of those activities include a Kids Camp at Symposium, and a
Doctoral Symposium. Our members have leadership roles in NCWIT, NSF BPC
projects, and CPATH.

SIGCSE provides continuing education for members through a growing
number of Symposia workshops (39 at SIGCS 2010). SIGCSE also sponsors
workshops for both new faculty and for department chairs.

Bottom line -- SIGCSE is not only viable, it is vibrant. My hope for the
new Board is that the next viability study will show exciting new
endeavors for a community of Computing Educators and their students in a
field that has achieved the widespread recognition that it decidedly
deserves. Rock on SIGCSE! Thank you for allowing me to serve as your
chair and thank you to all the volunteers that makes this position so
rewarding.