---
title: SIGCSE Board Endorses AP Effort
date: 2011-02-20
---

**SIGCSE Board Endorses AP Effort**\
The SIGCSE board encourages SIGCSE members to learn about the new AP
effort at <http://csprinciples.org> and to explore the details of the
effort and offer their attestation at
<http://www.collegeboard.com/html/computerscience/index.html>.

**Why?**\
The enrollment of students studying computing today is dramatically
lower than needed to drive our information society. Current
undergraduate computing enrollment is less than 50% of what's needed to
meet the expected computing jobs in the United States according to the
US Bureau of Labor Statistics. Computing is critical to innovation in
today's economy as the Rising Above the Gathering Storm report
describes, but we have too few students learning computing to support
innovation. We have an enormous need for more and more diverse students
to meet the growing computing needs of our 21st century economy.

A key part of the problem is the lack of good and broadly accessible
computing education at the primary and secondary school level. Research
suggests that students emerge from high school without really
understanding what computer science is. No wonder that students don't
choose to pursue studies in the discipline! We desperately need good
computer science education available in many schools.

The ACM's Special Interest Group for Computer Science Education (SIGCSE)
is fully supportive of the efforts of the National Science Foundation
(NSF) and the College Board to develop, pilot, and deploy a new Advanced
Placement exam, Computer Science: Principles. We agree with the goal to
create a new AP exam that attracts a diverse range of students and
introduces important computer science concepts, beyond the basic
syntactic and semantic structures of a programming language. We are
pleased to hear that the development methodology is based on the
National Research Council's framework to avoid the "mile wide and inch
deep" problem of classes that have too much content and no real depth.
We are confident that the resulting curriculum will meet the desired
aims.

Thank you very much.

Ren√©e McCauley\
SIGCSE Chair
