---
title: SIGCSE Board Endorses SIGBP Formation
date: 2011-02-20
---

**SIGCSE Board Endorses SIGBP Formation**\
The Executive Board of the ACM Special Interest Group on Computer
Science Education (SIGCSE) supports the formation of a new ACM Special
Interest Group on Broadening Participation (SIGBP).

SIGCSE provides a forum for educators to discuss issues related to the
development,implementation, and/or evaluation of computing programs,
curricula, and courses, as well as syllabi, laboratories, and other
elements of teaching and pedagogy. SIGCSE is the premier organization
for computing education. It serves computer science teaching and
education research faculty at all levels, and several of its activities
focus on making introductory computing effective. SIGCSE collaborates
with the Computer Science Teachers Association (CSTA) and with other
teaching-oriented organizations in working to shape and improve
computing education at all levels worldwide\...

SIGCSE is interested in extending the reach and influence of computing
and promoting computing education. SIGCSE leaders serve on various ACM
Education committees. SIGCSE collaborates with CSTA, and has worked with
CSTA on an NSF grant. SIGCSE has held a conference (ITiCSE) outside of
the US annually since 1996. Our ICER workshop is held outside of the US
every other year; in 2010 it was held in Denmark; in 2012 it will be
held in New Zealand. SIGCSE grants in-cooperation status to numerous
conferences, including the CCSC conferences, Koli Calling, and AAAI.
Broadening participation efforts are in line with our goals of promoting
and improving computing education broadly.

We are happy to write this letter to support the formation of the ACM
SIGBP. As an organization of computing educators, we realize that there
is need for a broad population engaged and educated in computing. Our
conferences, including the SIGCSE Symposium, ITiCSE, and ICER, often
include papers on broadening participation in computing. Our members
hold leadership roles in NCWIT, NSF BPC and CPATH projects.

Although we feel very connected and committed to broadening
participation in education, there are important communities that we do
not serve and issues that we do not consider. There are issues of
broadening participation in the workforce, for example, changing
cultures to make it more appealing for people of all backgrounds to work
and stay in computing fields. Raising interest in computing for people
of all ages, from children to retirees, is not just a computing
education effort. Researching methods for broadening participation in
computing requires an understanding of a broader base of social science
and computing research that overlaps with computing education research
but has a different focus.

Related to these issues, we believe that there will be great benefit in
creating a community of computing researchers that can advance the field
of broadening participation through research. There is a need to
establish rigor in this research area. There is a need for a community
within which those interested in broadening participation can
collaborate. The existence of SIGBP will bring respect to this research
area and encourage others to pursue this area of study. Its existence
will add credibility to the field. We support the formation of an ACM
SIGBP and look forward to working together in the future.

Ren√©e McCauley\
SIGCSE Chair
